DEVELOPERS.md, before:

# Developer Guide

This repo contains the evaluation configs, scripts, and docs for SWE-bench Multilingual and SWE-bench-Live MultiLang on DGX Spark.

## Layout

- Repo root: `configs/`, `scripts/`, `tests/`, `docs/`, `logs/`
- Workspace: `work/swebench/`
  - `.venv` virtualenv
  - `runs/` outputs (predictions, results, reports)
  - Submodules:
    - `work/swebench/mini-swe-agent`
    - `work/swebench/live-swe-agent`
    - `work/swebench/SWE-bench`
    - `work/swebench/SWE-bench-Live`

`work/swebench/configs` and `work/swebench/scripts` are symlinks back to the repo root for convenience.

## Setup

1. Initialize submodules:
   ```bash
   git submodule update --init --recursive
   ```
2. Create a virtualenv in the workspace:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv work/swebench/.venv
   source work/swebench/.venv/bin/activate
   pip install -U pip
   ```
3. Install mini-swe-agent from the submodule:
   ```bash
   pip install -e work/swebench/mini-swe-agent
   ```
4. Ensure HuggingFace auth and cache:
   - Token: `~/.cache/huggingface/token`
   - Cache: `~/Models/huggingface`

## Running Evaluations

Follow the runbook in `docs/swe-bench-multilingual-evaluation.md`. The canonical workspace path is `work/swebench/`.

Configs live in `configs/` (also available at `work/swebench/configs`). vLLM should be run via Docker as shown in the runbook.

## Config Templates

Model configs are generated from a single template:
- Template: `configs/livesweagent.template.yaml`
- Generator: `scripts/agentic/generate_livesweagent_configs.py`

To regenerate all model configs after editing the template:
```bash
scripts/agentic/generate_livesweagent_configs.py
```

## Scripts

All scripts are in `scripts/`:

- `scripts/monitor_memory.sh` - memory monitoring during runs
- `scripts/agentic/run_swebench_multilingual.sh` - agentic SWE-bench Multilingual run loop
- `scripts/agentic/run_swebench_live_multilang.sh` - agentic SWE-bench-Live MultiLang run loop
- `scripts/agentic/serve_vllm_model.sh` - start vLLM for a model
- `scripts/agentic/stop_vllm_model.sh` - stop vLLM container by name
- `scripts/swebench_pull_images.py` - pre-pull SWE-bench Docker images
- `scripts/swebench_live_prepare.py` - patch SWE-bench-Live evaluation loop
- `scripts/swebench_report_metrics.py` - summarize metrics
- `scripts/swebench_generate_predictions.py` - legacy direct-inference script (not used for agentic runs)

## Tests

Most tests are standard `unittest`:

```bash
python -m unittest discover -s tests -v
```

Notes:
- `tests/test_litellm_streaming.py` requires vLLM running at `http://localhost:8000/v1` and the `mini-swe-agent` submodule present.
- `tests/test_swebench_configs.py` validates the config files under `configs/`.

## Issue Tracking

This project uses `bd` (beads) for issue tracking. See `AGENTS.md` for the workflow.

## Monitoring Live Agent Output

The agent streams live trajectories to per-instance JSONL files under the output directory.
When running from the repo root, you can follow the latest active trajectory like this:

```bash
tail -f "$(ls -t logs/swebench-multilingual/qwen3/*/*.traj.jsonl | head -n 1)" | jq -C '{timestamp, role, content}'
```

Notes on log locations:
- **Trajectory JSONL**: Under the evaluation output directory (e.g., `logs/swebench-multilingual/<model>/<instance>/<instance>.traj.jsonl`).
- **Run logs (nohup/stdout)**: Under `work/swebench/runs/` (e.g., `work/swebench/runs/qwen3-multilingual-YYYYmmdd-HHMMSS.log`).
- **mini-swe-agent log**: `logs/swebench-multilingual/<model>/minisweagent.log`.

Commit message:

Document v2 migration status and hooks

DEVELOPERS.md, after:

# Developer Guide

This repo contains the evaluation configs, scripts, and docs for SWE-bench Multilingual and SWE-bench-Live MultiLang on DGX Spark.

## Layout

- Repo root: `configs/`, `scripts/`, `tests/`, `docs/`, `logs/`
- Workspace: `work/swebench/`
  - `.venv` virtualenv
  - `runs/` outputs (predictions, results, reports)
  - Submodules:
    - `work/swebench/mini-swe-agent`
    - `work/swebench/live-swe-agent`
    - `work/swebench/SWE-bench`
    - `work/swebench/SWE-bench-Live`

`work/swebench/configs` and `work/swebench/scripts` are symlinks back to the repo root for convenience.

## Setup

1. Initialize submodules:
   ```bash
   git submodule update --init --recursive
   ```
2. Create a virtualenv in the workspace:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv work/swebench/.venv
   source work/swebench/.venv/bin/activate
   pip install -U pip
   ```
3. Install mini-swe-agent from the submodule:
   ```bash
   pip install -e work/swebench/mini-swe-agent
   ```
4. Ensure HuggingFace auth and cache:
   - Token: `~/.cache/huggingface/token`
   - Cache: `~/Models/huggingface`

## Running Evaluations

Follow the runbook in `docs/swe-bench-multilingual-evaluation.md`. The canonical workspace path is `work/swebench/`.

Configs live in `configs/` (also available at `work/swebench/configs`). vLLM should be run via Docker as shown in the runbook.

## Config Templates

Model configs are generated from a single template:
- Template: `configs/livesweagent.template.yaml`
- Generator: `scripts/agentic/generate_livesweagent_configs.py`

To regenerate all model configs after editing the template:
```bash
scripts/agentic/generate_livesweagent_configs.py
```

## Scripts

All scripts are in `scripts/`:

- `scripts/monitor_memory.sh` - memory monitoring during runs
- `scripts/agentic/run_swebench_multilingual.sh` - agentic SWE-bench Multilingual run loop
- `scripts/agentic/run_swebench_live_multilang.sh` - agentic SWE-bench-Live MultiLang run loop
- `scripts/agentic/serve_vllm_model.sh` - start vLLM for a model
- `scripts/agentic/stop_vllm_model.sh` - stop vLLM container by name
- `scripts/swebench_pull_images.py` - pre-pull SWE-bench Docker images
- `scripts/swebench_live_prepare.py` - patch SWE-bench-Live evaluation loop
- `scripts/swebench_report_metrics.py` - summarize metrics
- `scripts/swebench_generate_predictions.py` - legacy direct-inference script (not used for agentic runs)

## Tests

Most tests are standard `unittest`:

```bash
python -m unittest discover -s tests -v
```

Notes:
- `tests/test_litellm_streaming.py` requires vLLM running at `http://localhost:8000/v1` and the `mini-swe-agent` submodule present.
- `tests/test_swebench_configs.py` validates the config files under `configs/`.

### mini-swe-agent v2 System Requirements

The mini-swe-agent v2 test suite relies on bubblewrap and requires system
support for unprivileged user namespaces. On this host the following
system changes were required to get `python -m pytest -q` passing in
`work/swebench/mini-swe-agent`:

- Install `uidmap` (provides `newuidmap`/`newgidmap` for bubblewrap).
- Enable unprivileged user namespaces (AppArmor setting on Ubuntu 24.04).
- Ensure `/lib64` exists (created symlink to `/lib` on Ubuntu 24.04).

## Git Hooks (Test Enforcement)

This repo uses a **repo-managed** git hook to enforce tests before commit.

Install the hook once per clone:

```bash
scripts/git-hooks/install.sh
```

The `pre-commit` hook runs:
- `python -m unittest discover -s tests -v` (repo tests)
- `python -m pytest -q` in `work/swebench/mini-swe-agent`

The hook is deterministic and uses the venv at `work/swebench/.venv`.

## Issue Tracking

This project uses `bd` (beads) for issue tracking. See `AGENTS.md` for the workflow.

## Monitoring Live Agent Output

The agent streams live trajectories to per-instance JSONL files under the output directory.
When running from the repo root, you can follow the latest active trajectory like this:

```bash
tail -f "$(ls -t logs/swebench-multilingual/qwen3/*/*.traj.jsonl | head -n 1)" | jq -C '{timestamp, role, content}'
```

Notes on log locations:
- **Trajectory JSONL**: Under the evaluation output directory (e.g., `logs/swebench-multilingual/<model>/<instance>/<instance>.traj.jsonl`).
- **Run logs (nohup/stdout)**: Under `work/swebench/runs/` (e.g., `work/swebench/runs/qwen3-multilingual-YYYYmmdd-HHMMSS.log`).
- **mini-swe-agent log**: `logs/swebench-multilingual/<model>/minisweagent.log`.
